The idea of a regular season championship belt is the following:

At the beginning of a sports season, the reigning team champion posses a belt.
As the season is played, any team that defeats the team in possession the championship
belt is the new owner of the championship belt. At the end of the regular season the team
that posses the belt is the regular season champion.

First I got the data from http://www.landofbasketball.com/results/2013_2014_scores_full.htm.

The steps I did to retrieve the data were probably a bit different than how other students would do it. I copied and pasted the data into Excel. I then created extra columns. I wrote in the form of a SQL statement. For example: INSERT INTO scores(gameDate, team1, team1score, team2, team2score) VALUES( were in one column. I made a .csv file from this and then my next steps were as follows:

1) Replace “INSERT with INSERT
2) Replace VALUES (","""", with VALUES (‘
3) Replace ,?, with ‘,’
4) Replace ,!, with ‘,
5) Replace “”””, with ‘
6) Replace ,) with );

I created 3 tables: scores, teams, and games. I inserted all the data into scores, which was my test table. I then inserted team1 into the teams table and inserted the data from the scores table into the games table.

I wrote a recursive SQL statement called winner. How my query works is that it starts off with the team who had the champion belt last. I did a join on winner and games to get the game where the winning team lost. I wrote a function called getWinner2(winner INT, gDate DATE), which shows all the games of the winner after they won the championship belt. Since I want to know when the winner lost, I get the loss after the winning team had the champion belt and I limit it by 1. Lastly, I select from winner, which is a temporary table. I ordered by game date in descending order to give the last one.

I used java JSP for the web interface. Unfortunately, I couldn’t put it on the web server since CISE currently doesn’t support java JSP, but the code for the web part is all on github.

Overall, I had a lot of fun with this project, especially with the web interface. It was pretty cool to take a lot of my random knowledge and actually put together a project that had a bunch of different aspects to it (like parsing the data, writing a recursive query, and then connecting it to a web interface for the user).